README.md, before:

Advanced Go Load BalancerReplace yourusername/advanced-go-lb with your actual GitHub repository path.Project DescriptionThis project is an educational, medium-to-large scale implementation of an advanced HTTP/S load balancer built from scratch in Go. It demonstrates core concepts of load balancing, reverse proxying, health checking, routing, and policy enforcement, providing a practical example of building network infrastructure components in Go.The goal is to provide a clear, modular, and well-structured codebase suitable for learning and extending.FeaturesHTTP/S Reverse Proxying: Efficiently forwards incoming HTTP/S requests to backend servers.Multiple Load Balancing Algorithms: Supports various strategies for distributing traffic (e.g., Round Robin, Least Connections, Weighted).Active Health Checking: Periodically probes backend servers to determine their availability.Pluggable Health Probes: Support for different health check protocols (HTTP, TCP).Advanced Routing: Routes requests based on hostname, path, HTTP method, and headers.Policy Enforcement:Rate LimitingRequest/Response Header TransformationIP Access Control Lists (ACLs)Designed for extensibility to add more policies.Backend Pool Management: Organizes backends into logical pools with distinct configurations.Graceful Shutdown: Handles termination signals for clean shutdowns.Observability Integration: Includes basic logging, metrics, and tracing hooks.Modular Design: Code is organized into packages for clarity and maintainability.Project StructureThe codebase is structured into logical packages:advanced-go-lb/
├── main.go             # Application entry point
├── config/             # Configuration loading and parsing
├── internal/           # Internal business logic
│   ├── context/        # Request-scoped context
│   ├── backend/        # Backend server representation
│   ├── healthcheck/    # Backend health checking
│   ├── serverpool/     # Backend pools and algorithms
│   ├── routing/        # Request routing logic
│   ├── policy/         # Policy definitions and implementations
│   ├── handler/        # Core request handlers (HTTP, potentially TCP)
│   └── admin/          # Admin interface (optional)
└── pkg/                # Reusable utility packages
    ├── logging/        # Logging
    ├── metrics/        # Metrics
    └── tracer/         # Tracing
Each directory within internal/ and pkg/ contains a specific set of responsibilities, promoting separation of concerns.Getting StartedPrerequisitesGo 1.18 or higher installed.Cloning the Repositorygit clone https://github.com/yourusername/advanced-go-lb.git
cd advanced-go-lb
Building the Projectgo build -o go-lb .
This will create an executable named go-lb in the root directory.Running the ProjectThe load balancer requires a configuration. You can start with a simple configuration file (e.g., config.yaml) or use environment variables, depending on how you implement the config/loader.go package.Example command (assuming configuration via environment variables or a default file):./go-lb
Or, if using a config file:./go-lb --config config.yaml # Assuming you add a flag for config file path
Ensure your backend services are running and accessible from where you run the load balancer.ConfigurationConfiguration is handled by the config package. The primary configuration structure is defined in config/config.go. You will need to implement the loading mechanism in config/loader.go (e.g., reading from a YAML file, environment variables, etc.).A typical configuration will include:Listener address and port.Definitions of backend pools, including the list of backend URLs and the load balancing algorithm for each pool.Health check settings (path, interval, timeout) per backend pool.Routing rules that map incoming requests (based on host, path, headers) to specific backend pools and apply policies.Policy-specific configurations (e.g., rate limit thresholds, header transformation rules, IP lists for ACLs).Refer to the documentation in the config package for detailed configuration options once implemented.ContributingContributions are welcome! Please see the CONTRIBUTING.md file (you'll need to create this) for details on how to contribute, including:Reporting bugsSuggesting featuresSubmitting pull requestsLicenseThis project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details. (You'll need to create a LICENSE file with the MIT license text).AcknowledgementsThe Go community for excellent standard libraries and tools.The maintainers of net/http/httputil for providing the core reverse proxy functionality.(Add any other significant libraries or resources you use)© 2025 Your Name or Organization

Commit message:

Update versioning and enhance README for clarity
- Added version tag v0.1.0-beta to go.mod.
- Updated README.md to include version badge and a note indicating the project is in beta, along with improved formatting for better readability.

README.md, after:

Advanced Go Load Balancer [![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.0--beta-blue.svg)](https://github.com/amr/go-loadbalancer)

> **Note:** This project is currently in beta and is a work in progress. Features and APIs may change without notice.

Replace yourusername/advanced-go-lb with your actual GitHub repository path.Project DescriptionThis project is an educational, medium-to-large scale implementation of an advanced HTTP/S load balancer built from scratch in Go. It demonstrates core concepts of load balancing, reverse proxying, health checking, routing, and policy enforcement, providing a practical example of building network infrastructure components in Go.The goal is to provide a clear, modular, and well-structured codebase suitable for learning and extending.FeaturesHTTP/S Reverse Proxying: Efficiently forwards incoming HTTP/S requests to backend servers.Multiple Load Balancing Algorithms: Supports various strategies for distributing traffic (e.g., Round Robin, Least Connections, Weighted).Active Health Checking: Periodically probes backend servers to determine their availability.Pluggable Health Probes: Support for different health check protocols (HTTP, TCP).Advanced Routing: Routes requests based on hostname, path, HTTP method, and headers.Policy Enforcement:Rate LimitingRequest/Response Header TransformationIP Access Control Lists (ACLs)Designed for extensibility to add more policies.Backend Pool Management: Organizes backends into logical pools with distinct configurations.Graceful Shutdown: Handles termination signals for clean shutdowns.Observability Integration: Includes basic logging, metrics, and tracing hooks.Modular Design: Code is organized into packages for clarity and maintainability.Project StructureThe codebase is structured into logical packages:advanced-go-lb/
├── main.go             # Application entry point
├── config/             # Configuration loading and parsing
├── internal/           # Internal business logic
│   ├── context/        # Request-scoped context
│   ├── backend/        # Backend server representation
│   ├── healthcheck/    # Backend health checking
│   ├── serverpool/     # Backend pools and algorithms
│   ├── routing/        # Request routing logic
│   ├── policy/         # Policy definitions and implementations
│   ├── handler/        # Core request handlers (HTTP, potentially TCP)
│   └── admin/          # Admin interface (optional)
└── pkg/                # Reusable utility packages
    ├── logging/        # Logging
    ├── metrics/        # Metrics
    └── tracer/         # Tracing
Each directory within internal/ and pkg/ contains a specific set of responsibilities, promoting separation of concerns.Getting StartedPrerequisitesGo 1.18 or higher installed.Cloning the Repositorygit clone https://github.com/yourusername/advanced-go-lb.git
cd advanced-go-lb
Building the Projectgo build -o go-lb .
This will create an executable named go-lb in the root directory.Running the ProjectThe load balancer requires a configuration. You can start with a simple configuration file (e.g., config.yaml) or use environment variables, depending on how you implement the config/loader.go package.Example command (assuming configuration via environment variables or a default file):./go-lb
Or, if using a config file:./go-lb --config config.yaml # Assuming you add a flag for config file path
Ensure your backend services are running and accessible from where you run the load balancer.ConfigurationConfiguration is handled by the config package. The primary configuration structure is defined in config/config.go. You will need to implement the loading mechanism in config/loader.go (e.g., reading from a YAML file, environment variables, etc.).A typical configuration will include:Listener address and port.Definitions of backend pools, including the list of backend URLs and the load balancing algorithm for each pool.Health check settings (path, interval, timeout) per backend pool.Routing rules that map incoming requests (based on host, path, headers) to specific backend pools and apply policies.Policy-specific configurations (e.g., rate limit thresholds, header transformation rules, IP lists for ACLs).Refer to the documentation in the config package for detailed configuration options once implemented.ContributingContributions are welcome! Please see the CONTRIBUTING.md file (you'll need to create this) for details on how to contribute, including:Reporting bugsSuggesting featuresSubmitting pull requestsLicenseThis project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details. (You'll need to create a LICENSE file with the MIT license text).AcknowledgementsThe Go community for excellent standard libraries and tools.The maintainers of net/http/httputil for providing the core reverse proxy functionality.(Add any other significant libraries or resources you use)© 2025 Your Name or Organization
